---
description: Mechanisms
---

# Purchaser and Brokers

First of all, the 0.05% commission defined by Watt should be applied per transaction to obtain an accurate value.

Concerning the stakeholders' market incentives, it is necessary to discuss some elements about their rewards metrics based on the supply-demand dynamic:

> * _Consumers:_ typically, they are price-takers.
> * _Suppliers:_ they need to set up a price that at least equals their $$LCOE$$ $$(p \geq L C O E)$$
> * _Purchasers:_ They support NDB Hub projects by a staking mechanism.
> * _Broker/Moderator:_ 0.05% commission per transaction

A transaction within this ecosystem could be represented by the following:

Energy suppliers expect to set up a price, $$p$$, equal to or above their $$LCOE$$ per $$kWh$$, hence this price will be given for the consumers, but they also can affect the price level, depending on their willingness to pay and the token scarcity fueled by the purchasers (staking mechanism) within the ecosystem as given by Eq. 16:

$$
R_{i}(t)=\underline{c}\left[E_{i}(t) p_{i}(t)\right] \quad \text { Eq. } 16
$$

{% hint style="info" %}
Where;

$$R i(t)$$ is our profits at the moment $$t$$, which will represent both the final price per transaction for the consumers to pay their utility bills

$$E i(t)$$ is the energy generated by the supplier at the moment $$t$$ (it could be expressed in a certain conventional energy unit)

$$p_{i}(t)$$ the price of electricity at the moment $$t$$, the Watt tokens will be used as the system's coin, and suppliers need that $$p \geq L C O E$$

Therefore $$\left[E_{i}(t) p_{i}(t)\right]$$, represents a transaction within the system fueled by supply-demand market forces defined previously

$$\underline{C}$$ represents Watt fee, equal to 0.05% applied to each transaction
{% endhint %}

In addition, the interest-earning protocol for the purchasers could be represented by Eq. 17:

$$
D_{i}(t)=\left[T_{i}(t) p_{i}(t)\right](1+r)^{t} \quad \text { Eq. } 17
$$

{% hint style="info" %}
Where;

$$D_i(t)$$ is the purchasers' future value of the staked NDB tokens. This will be represented as Watt tokens, the reward mechanism for purchasers

$$T_{i}(t)$$ is the amount of staked NDB tokens

$$r$$ is the interest rate defined by the NDB Hub. This represents the time value of staked NDB tokens

$$t$$ is the number of years
{% endhint %}



Another way to represent the formula described above is given by Eq. 18:

$$
D_{i}(t)=T_{i}(t)\left(1+\frac{r}{n}\right)^{n t} \quad \text { Eq. } 18
$$

Where $$n$$ is the number of compounding periods per year (quarterly, monthly, and daily).
